[Music]
Hello, in the last video we
understood the difference between a story and a script. Today we will
learn what a story board is
and how to convert our script into a story board.
In common parlance,
we can understand a story board as a structure of our video,
after reading and watching which the
entire video starts appearing in front of your eyes.
A story board is created
in many ways, although the information given in it is
almost the same in all,
such as what kind of shorts you will take,
how will you take it, what will be the dialogues in it,
what will be the scenes and
who will be the characters speaking them. Therefore, we will
advise you to use this format to create your story board.
Here write the scene number of your video.
Here write the name of the character. Here
write the dialogue or voice over of that character.
Write its description here and finally write the
shorts you are going to take here
[Music] In
this way, you can easily convert your script
into a story board
on which it will be very easy to make a video.
Let us now understand with an example how to convert a
story into a script and story board.
Story Geeta is a hardworking farmer of the village. One
day she started selling a new crop of potatoes in her village.
Heard about a seed which gives more yield in less time.
He gathered the sisters around
and told them about it too.
Script Geeta Hey Rama, I have heard something today
Rama, what have you heard
Geeta
Geeta, a potato seed has come to our place
which gives more yield in less time Rama,
let's tell all the sisters
Story
Board Geeta and Rama are talking while sitting on a cot in their village
Geeta is
telling Rama about a new potato seed Rama
gets happy after hearing this interesting thing and
talks about telling all the sisters
While writing the script, you should also
keep in mind that the experiences of both men and women should be
discussed and at the same time there should
not be any such word or discussion on such a thing
which shows inequality or discrimination between men and women
So you see
how easily a story can be converted into a story board
Hope now you too can easily write
story script and story board to make your video
Thank you
[Music]